ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE  
Mr. Marko Niemelä, 
Faculty of Information Technology,  
University of Jyvaskyla,
PO Box 35, 
FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, 
Finland 
Email: marko.nieme@gmail.com 

REFERENCE PUBLICATIONS USED FOR THIS TOOLBOX IMPLEMENTATION
1) E. Eirola, G. Doquire, M. Verleysen, and A. Lendasse, "Distance estimation in
	numerical data sets with missing values," Information Sciences, vol. 240, pp.
	115–128, 2013.
2) D. P. P. Mesquita, J. P. P. Gomes, A. H. Souza Junior, and J. S. Nobre, "Euclidean
	distance estimation in incomplete datasets," Neurocomputing, vol. 248, pp. 11–18,
	2017.
3) J. Gower, "A general coefficient of similarity and some of its properties," 
	Biometrics, vol. 27, pp. 857–871, 1971.
4) S. Äyrämö, "Knowledge mining using robust clustering," Jyväskylä Studies in 
	Computing. University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä, 2006, vol. 63.
5) T. Kärkkäinen and M. Saarela, "Robust Principal Component Analysis of Data with 
	Missing Values," In: Perner P. (eds) Machine Learning and Data Mining in Pattern 
	Recognition. MLDM 2015. 
6) Q. Li, S. Yue, and M. Ding, "Volume and surface area-based cluster validity
	index," IEEE Access, 8:24170–24181, 2020.
7) M. Niemelä and T. Kärkkäinen, "Improving clustering and cluster validation 
	with missing data using distance estimation methods," In: Computational Sciences 
	and Artificial Intelligence in Industry: New digital technologies for solving 
	future societal and economical challenges, Intelligent Systems, Control and Automation: 
	Science and Engineering. Springer Verlag, 2021. (12 pages, to appear).

SOME INFORMATION ABOUT REFERENCES 
1)  Expected squared Euclidean distance (ESD) algorithm was implemented based on this paper. 
2)  In this article, distance estimation with expected Euclidean distance (EED) algorithm 
    was presented. In the article, data were assumed to follow mixtrure of Gaussian distribution. 
    We applied the idea for estimating distances based on multivariate Gaussian distributed data. 
3)  Partial distance strategy was implemented based on this reference paper.    
4)  Definition of spatial median is proved in this dissertation thesis. The thesis also 
    includes convergence analysis for the spatial median. The spatial median can realized 
    using SOR (Sequential Overrelaxation) algorithm.
5)  Available data strategy (ADS) is explained in this article. The paper also provides 
    a definition for a covariance matrix based on available data values. By default, 
    the toolbox uses expectation maximization (EM) for calculating the mean vector and 
    covariance matrix of Gaussian distributed data. The covariance matrix based on the ADS 
    and spatial median of the data can used as an alternative for the statistical estimates 
    of the EM algorithm. Eventhough, the calculation principles differ between these two approaches. 
6)  Data set transformation algorithm was implemented based on this paper.  
7)  This paper proposes reference results for the second part of experiments.

